docs/worker/setup/docker-startup.md, before:

# Worker Docker Startup Guide

> Status: Active
> Owner: @jdubz
> Last Updated: 2025-11-25

## Overview

This guide covers automated testing to verify the Python worker Docker container starts reliably, runs the queue worker, and shuts down gracefully. These procedures ensure the dev-monitor can reliably control the worker service.

## Context

The dev-monitor app manages the Python worker Docker container as one of its controlled services. This guide ensures:

1. Docker Compose starts the container successfully
2. The worker process initializes and connects to services
3. Graceful shutdown works (`docker compose stop`)
4. Force kill works when needed (`docker compose kill`)
5. The container can be restarted without conflicts

## Setup Procedures

### 1. Create Docker Startup Test Script

Create `scripts/test-docker-startup.sh`:

- Start Docker container (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d`)
- Wait for container to be ready (max 30 seconds)
- Verify container is running (`docker compose ps`)
- Check container health status
- Verify worker logs show initialization
- Verify worker can connect to Firestore emulator
- Document exit codes (0 = success, 1 = failure)

### 2. Graceful Shutdown Test

Add to `scripts/test-docker-startup.sh`:

- Send graceful stop (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml stop`)
- Wait for container to stop (max 10 seconds)
- Verify container has stopped completely
- Verify no orphaned processes
- Test that restart works immediately after shutdown
- Document expected shutdown behavior

### 3. Force Kill Test

Add test case:

- Start container
- Send force kill (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml kill`)
- Verify immediate termination
- Verify container stops within 2 seconds
- Verify no zombie containers
- Document force kill behavior for dev-monitor

### 4. Port Conflict and Network Handling

Add test cases:

- Verify Docker network is created
- Test container restart with existing network
- Verify container can reach Firestore emulator (port 8080)
- Test when Firestore emulator is not running (expected failure)
- Document network requirements

### 5. Process Management Tests

Add test cases:

- Verify container ID tracking works
- Test multiple start attempts (should fail gracefully)
- Test rapid start/stop/restart cycles
- Verify logs are accessible (`docker compose logs`)
- Test cleanup of stopped containers

### 6. Integration with Makefile

- Add `make test-startup` target to Makefile
- Ensure test can run in CI environment
- Add cleanup commands for orphaned containers
- Document in README.md

## Test Success Criteria

The test script should verify:

- **Start**: Container starts within 30 seconds
- **Health**: Container status is "running"
- **Logs**: Worker logs show successful initialization
- **Shutdown**: Container stops within 10 seconds of `stop` command
- **Force Kill**: Container stops within 2 seconds of `kill` command
- **Restart**: Can restart immediately without conflicts

## Expected Behaviors

### Normal Startup

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
# Expected: Container starts in detached mode
# Expected: Worker initializes within 30 seconds
# Expected: Logs show connection to Firestore
# Expected: Container status: "running"
```

### Check Status

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml ps
# Expected: Shows container status (running/exited)
# Expected: Shows uptime and health
```

### View Logs

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f
# Expected: Streams worker logs in real-time
# Expected: Shows initialization and queue processing
```

### Graceful Shutdown

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml stop
# Expected: Sends SIGTERM to worker process
# Expected: Worker finishes current task (if any)
# Expected: Container stops within 10 seconds
# Expected: No data loss
```

### Force Kill (if graceful fails)

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml kill
# Expected: Sends SIGKILL to worker process
# Expected: Immediate termination within 2 seconds
# Expected: May interrupt current task
```

### Restart

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml restart
# Expected: Graceful stop followed by start
# Expected: Worker reconnects to services
# Expected: Queue processing resumes
```

### Cleanup

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml down
# Expected: Stops and removes container
# Expected: Removes networks
# Expected: Volumes persist (unless -v flag used)
```

## Dependencies

- Docker and Docker Compose must be installed
- Firestore emulator should be running (for full integration test)
- Environment variables configured in `.env` file

## Documentation

Create `docs/worker-startup.md`:

- Document expected startup time (<30s)
- Document Docker Compose configuration
- Document graceful shutdown behavior (`docker compose stop`)
- Document force kill behavior (`docker compose kill`)
- Document error scenarios and codes
- Document network and port requirements
- Document log access and debugging

## Notes

- Worker runs in Docker container for isolation
- Use `docker compose stop` for graceful shutdown (preserves data)
- Use `docker compose kill` only when stop hangs or fails
- Container logs are essential for debugging
- Dev-monitor should use detached mode (`-d` flag)
- Test both with and without Firestore emulator running
- Document expected behavior when dependencies are unavailable
- Worker should have reasonable startup timeout (30s)
- Graceful shutdown timeout should be 10s before force kill

Commit message:

docs: remove firestore references and align with sqlite-only configs

docs/worker/setup/docker-startup.md, after:

# Worker Docker Startup Guide

> Status: Active
> Owner: @jdubz
> Last Updated: 2025-11-25

## Overview

This guide covers automated testing to verify the Python worker Docker container starts reliably, runs the queue worker, and shuts down gracefully. These procedures ensure the dev-monitor can reliably control the worker service.

## Context

The dev-monitor app manages the Python worker Docker container as one of its controlled services. This guide ensures:

1. Docker Compose starts the container successfully
2. The worker process initializes and connects to services
3. Graceful shutdown works (`docker compose stop`)
4. Force kill works when needed (`docker compose kill`)
5. The container can be restarted without conflicts

## Setup Procedures

### 1. Create Docker Startup Test Script

Create `scripts/test-docker-startup.sh`:

- Start Docker container (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d`)
- Wait for container to be ready (max 30 seconds)
- Verify container is running (`docker compose ps`)
- Check container health status
- Verify worker logs show initialization
- Verify worker can connect to SQLite database
- Document exit codes (0 = success, 1 = failure)

### 2. Graceful Shutdown Test

Add to `scripts/test-docker-startup.sh`:

- Send graceful stop (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml stop`)
- Wait for container to stop (max 10 seconds)
- Verify container has stopped completely
- Verify no orphaned processes
- Test that restart works immediately after shutdown
- Document expected shutdown behavior

### 3. Force Kill Test

Add test case:

- Start container
- Send force kill (`docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml kill`)
- Verify immediate termination
- Verify container stops within 2 seconds
- Verify no zombie containers
- Document force kill behavior for dev-monitor

### 4. Port Conflict and Network Handling

Add test cases:

- Verify Docker network is created
- Test container restart with existing network
- Verify container can reach SQLite database (port 8080)
- Test when SQLite database is not running (expected failure)
- Document network requirements

### 5. Process Management Tests

Add test cases:

- Verify container ID tracking works
- Test multiple start attempts (should fail gracefully)
- Test rapid start/stop/restart cycles
- Verify logs are accessible (`docker compose logs`)
- Test cleanup of stopped containers

### 6. Integration with Makefile

- Add `make test-startup` target to Makefile
- Ensure test can run in CI environment
- Add cleanup commands for orphaned containers
- Document in README.md

## Test Success Criteria

The test script should verify:

- **Start**: Container starts within 30 seconds
- **Health**: Container status is "running"
- **Logs**: Worker logs show successful initialization
- **Shutdown**: Container stops within 10 seconds of `stop` command
- **Force Kill**: Container stops within 2 seconds of `kill` command
- **Restart**: Can restart immediately without conflicts

## Expected Behaviors

### Normal Startup

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
# Expected: Container starts in detached mode
# Expected: Worker initializes within 30 seconds
# Expected: Logs show connection to SQLite DB
# Expected: Container status: "running"
```

### Check Status

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml ps
# Expected: Shows container status (running/exited)
# Expected: Shows uptime and health
```

### View Logs

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f
# Expected: Streams worker logs in real-time
# Expected: Shows initialization and queue processing
```

### Graceful Shutdown

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml stop
# Expected: Sends SIGTERM to worker process
# Expected: Worker finishes current task (if any)
# Expected: Container stops within 10 seconds
# Expected: No data loss
```

### Force Kill (if graceful fails)

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml kill
# Expected: Sends SIGKILL to worker process
# Expected: Immediate termination within 2 seconds
# Expected: May interrupt current task
```

### Restart

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml restart
# Expected: Graceful stop followed by start
# Expected: Worker reconnects to services
# Expected: Queue processing resumes
```

### Cleanup

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml down
# Expected: Stops and removes container
# Expected: Removes networks
# Expected: Volumes persist (unless -v flag used)
```

## Dependencies

- Docker and Docker Compose must be installed
- SQLite database should be running (for full integration test)
- Environment variables configured in `.env` file

## Documentation

Create `docs/worker-startup.md`:

- Document expected startup time (<30s)
- Document Docker Compose configuration
- Document graceful shutdown behavior (`docker compose stop`)
- Document force kill behavior (`docker compose kill`)
- Document error scenarios and codes
- Document network and port requirements
- Document log access and debugging

## Notes

- Worker runs in Docker container for isolation
- Use `docker compose stop` for graceful shutdown (preserves data)
- Use `docker compose kill` only when stop hangs or fails
- Container logs are essential for debugging
- Dev-monitor should use detached mode (`-d` flag)
- Test both with and without SQLite database running
- Document expected behavior when dependencies are unavailable
- Worker should have reasonable startup timeout (30s)
- Graceful shutdown timeout should be 10s before force kill
